Company : Accionlabs
Duration : 15 minutes
Interviewer : guruvaih
Interviewer said Company wants SRE profile. 
Said.
Questions :
1) grafana
2) ELK
3) what is your approach, how to install docker inside a docker image.
4) what is service mesh in kubernetes. 
5) if we are using 1000 of server means it ll take lots money. How ll u optimize cost.
6) how ll u install libraries in ubantu image

 Accions labs
8.what exactaly is jenkins pipelines?
--Jenkins is a free opensource CI/CD tool where its pipelines help in automating the codechanges by the developer are reflected in the applicatiion for the customers.
	Jenkins Pipeline is set to trigger whenever there is any code changes commits being pushed to the central repositories by the developers its starts to build the changed code.
	 and then the pipeline is written in such a way that it automatically get tested for the stability and reliability of the code changes and is also designed package and deploy these changes in the webserver,
	 for the use of endusers.
---------------
7.how jenkins connect kubernates plugins?
--We need to install a plugin called Kubernetes in jenkins to connect jenkins to K8s.
---------------
6.how to monitor kubernetes cluster?
--Monitoring a Kubernetes (K8s) cluster is essential for ensuring the health, performance, and reliability of your containerized applications and 
	the underlying infrastructure.
	1. Choose a monitoring tool.
	2. Deploy monitoring components.
	3. Configure data collection.
	4. Visualize metrics and 
	5. Alerting, log collection and analysis.
	6. Resource/Cluster and Security monitoring.
	7. Disaster recovery. 
---------------
5.heml chart design kubernatics and premathuse ?
design a heml chart?
---------------
4.what kind of database prometheus uses and why it uses this type of database?
--Prometheus uses time-series database specifically designed for monitoring and alerting purposes.
	where each data point is associated with a timestamp. This makes it particularly useful for monitoring and recording metrics that change over time.
---------------
3.why use ansible in project?
--ansible is used to manage the required configurations in the already existing clour resources: eg: We can update/install any packages in all the resources at once with a simple code.
	Ansible is also mainly used to automate these package updates or installation whenever required.
---------------
2.terraform and ansible diffrent?
--yes terraform and ansible both are different as:
	1. Terraform: Is the famous opensource tool to write the IaC configuration for the provisioning of public cloud resources and it supports most of the top cloud resource providers like: AWS/Azure/GCP.
	2. Ansible: Is the famous opensource configuration management tool, manages the infrastructure  by writing a code rather than using a manual process so that it can be automated,tested and deployed very easily.
---------------
1.network loadbalance and application laod balancer?
--These are different types of Elastic load balancers: 
	1.NLB--Works at transport layer 4 of OSI model and is designed for handling TCP, TLS and UPD Traffic, 
		best suited for applications required extreme high performance and low latency to handle millions of requests per seconds.
	2.ALB--Works at the application layer 7 of OSI model(open-system-interconnection), It can make routing decisions based on the content within the http and https headers.
		Allowing more advanced request routing. i.e., path-based and host based routing. 
		

Accion Labs
how to intall setup of kubernets ec2 instance?
basic componets of k8s?
how build used to happen in jenkins?
diffrence btw diclative and scripted pipe line in jenkins give solutionn side by side
there is merge conflict to raise pr, how we can resolve that?
there are two commit adocker command and explain ?
nd both are identical how we can fix?
i have k8s installed on azure service at time load and image getting pulled and less server is there to clean up i have to write only linux command.
what is default port for tomcat server
how was tomcat use in which senario?
sprint?
jira what purpose we use?
ansible write a play book that talk to window server?
inventor file hold for window server?
diffrence btw anscomppoents of terrafom architecture?
ible and shef pupet?
what information willl you provide for window server , ansible?
docker file and what it must carry?
there are two comitaner registory a and b, and i have image in a and need that in to copy in b, we can do that using docker command ?
jenkins pipe line build the code i want to deployment from dev to production how we can do using docker command
terraform, what are kind of script can be develop please write some of script?
why terraform use for devOps?
what is null resource in terraform?
what are the compitator for terraform in aws?
basic command of terraform,
what is statefile in terraform?
terraform tf statefile will be crated?
what is security groups in aws, why we need?
local exc provisinor?
diffent label in central inforcement?
log the state file, how we can do that?
kubernatics, diffrence btw deamonset and statefull set?
what are diffrent type k8s services?
ngrex services?
way restart pod?
wap base script does rollout of deployment?
keda?

